## Create a new Siri intent

### Prerequisites

- Xcode 10 
- Xamarin version compatible with Xcode 10 
- [Objective Sharpie](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/xamarin/cross-platform/macios/binding/objective-sharpie/)

### Generate intent code

1. Open `Toggl.Daneel.IntentCodeGen/Toggl.Daneel.IntentCodeGen.xcodeproj` using Xcode.
1. Modify the "Intents.intentdefinition" as needed.
1. Build the project. 
1. Find the generated `.h` and `.m` for intents by following the instruction in `AppDelegate.m`.
1. Have the files ready for the next step.

### Generate static lib and C# binding code

1. Open `Toggl.Daneel.IntentStaticLib/Toggl.Daneel.IntentStaticLib.xcodeproj` using Xcode.
1. Copy all the files from the previous step to the project.
1. Open the shell, then run

```bash
make
```

This will build the static library and also generate C# code for the binding project. The files we're interested in are:

- `libToggl.Daneel.IntentStaticLib.a` - The fat Cocoa library for i368 & arm64.
- `bo/ApiDefinitions.cs` and `bo/StructsAndEnums.cs` - Generated C# binding code.

### Update the Xamarin binding library

1. Open the main `Toggl.sln` and find `Toggl.Daneel.IntentBinding` project.
2. Replace the content of the code with the generated `ApiDefinitions.cs` and `StructsAndEnums.cs` from the previous step.
3. The files generated by Sharpie need some adjustment before they can be used:

- `StructsAndEnums.cs`
Change all the enum type from `nint` to `long`

```csharp
// public enum StopTimerIntentResponseCode : nint
public enum StopTimerIntentResponseCode : long
```

- `ApiDefinitions.cs`
Remove all the `[Watch (5,0), iOS (12,0)]` attributes as they're not needed for the project. Refer to [Xamarin](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/xamarin/ios/platform/introduction-to-ios12/siri-shortcuts)

```csharp
  [Watch (5,0), iOS (12,0)] // Remove this
	[BaseType (typeof(INIntent))]
	interface StopTimerIntent
```

4. The `libToggl.Daneel.IntentStaticLib.a` is symlinked to the static lib, so nothing to do here.

### Update `Toggl.Daneel.SiriExtension`'s `Info.Plist`

1. Ensure the `IntentsSupported` includes all the supported intents

### Done
